[Music]
hey how's it going guys this is Dave -
Dee and this is a video on the 2016 HP
omen so instead of an internal spec bump
like a lot of companies did this year HP
did a full redesign in the omen now
right off the bat it's a more
traditional design instead of that edgy
trapezoid shade from last year it's a
more standard rounded rectangle the top
surface has the soft touch rubber
coating on it I like soft touch
materials when they're new and this one
looks pretty nice it has this diagonal
weave pattern on it but if you bang it
up or you scratch it the finish doesn't
look very good so keep it protected with
a case or a sleeve the build quality is
okay it's a plastic build last year's
omen had a nicer overall finish because
I had more metal but this year's version
is still decent it just doesn't feel as
premium the bottom panel is plastic with
some venting grates but there's no soft
touch finish on this the screen and the
chassis have a bit of flex but it's
nothing too bad the hinges are a little
tight it's not easily opened with one
hand and I think the overall build
quality is a step down from last year
because it's just not as much metal used
in the construction process the good
thing is that when you don't use as much
metal the overall price comes down so
this year's omen starts at $900 opening
it up the screen on this model is a 4k
IPS panel it's not a touchscreen but
it's bright at around 313 it's it has
pretty good color accuracy good viewing
angles contrast could be better but
overall I would consider this to be a
pretty good screen now this is the
upgraded panel it's an extra $90 I've
seen the 1080p screen on the base model
and it's so much worse it's really dim
it's around 200 nits at max brightness
and the color accuracy was surprisingly
bad I highly recommend spending the
money to upgrade to the 4k panel the
webcam is a standard HD webcam it looks
okay there is an option to get a real
sense 3d camera if you want to use
Windows hello the keyboard area has the
same diagonal pattern as the lid but
instead of that soft touch finish it's
just a smooth surface at the top of this
are the speakers
they have Bang & Olufsen branding again
but like most laptop speakers in this
price range
they don't sound particularly good it's
loud and it's positioned nicely but it's
a balanced sound there's a very obvious
deficiency in bass even if you use the
software adjustments the keyboard and
the trackpad are the same ones as the HP
Pavillion or at least I think they are
they feel very similar the keyboard has
red backlighting now it's a decent
keyboard relatively short stroke but
there's nothing I really dislike about
it the keyboard is shifted over to the
left again because of the number pad and
the up and down arrow keys could be
bigger or positioned better but overall
the typing experience is enjoyable the
trackpad feels small it's wide but it's
not roomy from front to back so doing
gestures feels a little cramped tracking
works fine I didn't notice any skipping
or anything the buttons need a bit more
force to trigger than I'm used to but
yeah nothing I really dislike about the
trackpad either when it's closed up it's
less than an inch thick so it's a little
thinner than your average 15-inch gaming
laptop as for ports on this side there's
an Ethernet HDMI and SD card slot and
one of the two USB 3.0 s the other side
has a second USB 3.0 and a USB 2.0
there's also your standard audio jack
but there's no Thunderbolt 3 so there's
no external GPU option the omen comes in
several graphics card configurations the
$900 base model has a gtx 950 M and you
can upgrade that for $30 to a gtx 960m
the one I have here is the top spec GTX
960 5m I wouldn't get the 950 M it's an
okay card but for an extra $30 that
upgrade to the 960 M is so worth it the
960 m will do 60 frames per second for
light games even on Ultra settings
pretty easily and moderately demanding
games will still hit 60 frames per
second at medium or high graphics
settings I've reviewed a lot of laptops
with that card so you can check those
out for more details
the 965 M is actually a noticeable
step-up in performance depending on the
game and screen resolution it's rounded
20% improvement in frame rates over the
960 m again this is highly dependent on
the game and the graphics setting but it
is a noticeable boost thermally the 2016
omen runs relatively cool the fans do a
good job in keeping the system cool but
in terms of fan noise The Omen is
slightly louder than the average laptop
just by a few decibels but it's more of
a reason to put on headphone
if you're playing games the 7200 rpm
hard drive has a pretty average
performance you can configure some
models to include an SSD and the
performance on the factory SSD isn't
very good either fortunately it's easy
to open up and upgrade them you just
remove the screws on the bottom pop off
the keyboard and you can see that the
RAM is upgradable there's two slots to
work with the two storage bays are also
upgradable there's two and a half inch
SATA drive and also room for an m2 PCIe
stick the battery down here 61.5 watt
hour battery takes around two and a half
hours to charge up and I'm getting
around four hours of battery life with
screen at around eighty percent
brightness my guess is that the 1080p
panel would be closer to five and a half
six hours all right
the 2016 HP omen soft touch finish build
quality is respectable for a plastic
build the 4k screen is brights
reasonably color accurate and highly
recommended upgrade over the Tandy P
option the keyboard is decent
backlighting is red and overall an
enjoyable typing experience the trackpad
could be a little taller and the buttons
are harder to press but it's a very
usable trackpad inside the skylake i7
and the gtx 960 5em are great performers
and they're very well cooled by fans
that are a little bit louder than I'd
like the RAM and the storage are easily
accessible and upgradable and the
battery will give you around 4 hours of
regular use if you're using the 4k
screen now last year's omen was a more
premium product it was more expensive it
had better build quality and it looked
very unique this year's omen it's a
little more generic looking the build
quality has come down and the price has
come down with it which is cool now
there's nothing about the omen that it
excels at it's kind of very good across
the board if you get the 4k screen I
think you're getting a little bit better
value than the average laptop in this
space but yeah if you like the brand or
if you like the way that the laptop
looks I think it's a good pick up that's
the end of this video I hope you guys
liked it thumbs have you liked it
subs have you loved it it's been nice
I'll see you guys next time
[Music]